---
layout: article
title: "Java Programming Language"
date: 2019-03-14 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*iIXOmGDzrtTJmdwbn7cGMw.png
---
For every websites to receive transfer it is a must to go in for SEO Canada, Internet Marketing Canada is become very well-liked with all website owners that expect excellence visitors and sales from their website. It is also significant to have a search engine friendly and user friendly websites. Know more about search engine friendly design read additional.

Java

Java was developed at Sun Microsystems. It is an object-oriented programming language extremely alike to C++. But java is different from C++, as it is platform free. Different other program, which contain platform constraints, java programs be able to run on any machine with any operating system. All you require to do is first run the program and then complied it using the java compiler. Once your java program is compiled after that it is prepared to be executed on a few platform.

A Compiler is a program that checks for syntactical/logical errors in a program. If it finds errors, then it reports them, else it makes an executable file of the program. In case of java, the compiler does not create a complete executable file; it creates a byte code file. This byte code file is interpreted by the java virtual machine, which is built within the browser.

Java is an ideal language for the Internet. Java was originally launched on a Web browser written in java itself, called the hot java browser. Internet and World wide wed developers all over the world were attracted towards java because of its power to merge interactivity with static HTML pages with cross platform compatibility. Learning hoe to program using java is a complete new area in itself. There are lots of books available and web sites too that aim just towards java development.

Java Applets

Java Applets are little java programs that be able to included inside an HTML page .So, when your page is viewed the applet is too downloaded plus can be viewed as of inside the Web page. Netscape was the initial browser to include the capability to execute java applets .Since following that every main browsers contain licensed java .Java contain approximately no limitation and be able to use to make a few kind of ask for as well. Java application work as standalone programs and be able to exist only on the server, while applets are basically inserted into an HTML page and are displayed within a browser. Applets are often used for creating dynamic and interactive web applications, though the true power of java lies in the application end.

ADDING APPLETS TO WEB PAGE

To add a java applet to your web page, you require using the tag. This tag will have the java applet and using the HEIGHT and WIDTH attributes you specify how large or small the java applet box

JAVASCRIPT AND DYNAMIC HTML

We are now moving towards those aspects of web publishing that add extra interactivity and create the web site extra dynamic. JavaScript and DHTML are two such capabilities that can increase the impact of your Web site.

JavaScript

JavaScript is essentially a programming language used for adding interactive elements into a web page.

