---
layout: article
title: "Make Money Online By Blogging Your Way To Bigger Commissions"
date: 2013-06-02 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://amylynnandrews.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/07/how-to-make-money-blogging-m.jpg
---

Do you want to know the secrets of how to make money online by blogging? You should combine both affiliate marketing with blogging. In this article, I will share with you how blogging can help you bank in more affiliate cash.

Tip No. 1: You should use WordPress

Self hosted WordPress platform is recognised as one of the best platform for blogging solution. It is easy to install and it makes blogging quick and easy even for a beginner who is without any technical skills. In terms of form and function, it is highly customizable. It is frequently updated. Furthermore, it has plenty "plug ins" for you to add for greater functions. In short, if you want to make money online by blogging, WordPress will help you in spending less time in managing your blog and you have more time in making money.

Tip No. 2: Install the best plug-ins

Some of the best plug-ins you could install on your WordPress blog are:

1. "Share This" plug in. This will allow your readers to bookmark your site on the popular social media sites;

2. "Ad Rotator" plug-in. This allows you to rotate your affiliate ads and the links on your blog;

3. "Similar Post" plug-in. By using this, you could keep your visitors reading by recommending similar content; and

4. Akismet. This is your spam-fighting tool.

These plug-ins will certainly help you to make money online by blogging.

Tip No. 3: Keep the Content of Your Blog Fresh

How? I suggest you create a "featured post" or product of the week section that highlights a new product to your selected niche every week. You could write about the review on these products.

Tip No. 4: Embed More Multi-media on Your Blog.

Understand that each reader has different learning style. Some learn by reading text, some may prefer to listen to audio instruction and some may want hands-on or emotional based learning experience. If you leverage on multi-media content, your blog will certainly be able to appeal to a wider readers. Besides, multi-media will make your blog caters for those with hearing or sights disabilities.

You will make more money online by blogging by having more visitors to your blog.

Tip No. 5: You must encourage participation and discussion

This is the key to make money online by blogging. You must create a sense of community by encouraging your readers to discuss and interact on your blog. This will help in building a relationship with the readers. People will only buy from someone they know and trust. You get more affiliate commissions by cultivating this sense of community.

How to do this? This is what you should do:

1. Blog frequently;

2. Blog about controversial issue;

3. Ask for comment on your blog posting;

4. Occasionally run a commenting contest;

5. Always ask for feedback from readers as well;

Tip No. 6: Have More Activities Which Could Help To Boost Your Affiliate Commission

If you want to make money online by blogging, you must have more activities on your blog which could help in boosting your affiliate commission. For example, you could post interviews with the merchants or product creators. Give an interview and use your affiliate link to pitch the product at the end. Post the interview on your blog. Another option is to post case studies. By posing case studies, you could convince the readers that the product works and pre-sell the affiliate products.

Now you have discovered how to make money online by blogging, apply the above tips and bank in more money!