---
layout: article
title: "BlogSuccess review and essentials: learning how to blog for money"
date: 2013-06-02 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://selfpublishinglab.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/successful-blogging-7-habits-of-highly-successful-bloggers.jpg
---

Perhaps you've considered making a blog, but weren't sure where to begin. BlogSuccess.com is one of the most recent websites from Jack Humphrey, one of the internet’s leading blog gurus, and may be a good place for you to begin learning the essentials of how to make money from a blog. 

Blog Success is one of the best blog training programs available on the Internet created by Jack Humphrey who has a lot of blogging experience and has made a living online with his blogs for years. You will find a gold mine of info in the more than 100 videos, documents and information in the member area. If you’re a new to the elements of making a blog, this will give you all the info you will need to get started. It will give you all the essentials including; how to choose profitable niches, how to monetize your blog, how to optimize your site for search-engines (SEO) and how to drive traffic to your site(s). Blog Success is a membership program that is currently being offered for $47 a month, although in the past membership fees have ranged anywhere from $39 a month to $197 a month. Blog Success is the updated version of Authority Site Center, which was Jack Humphrey’s previous training program. Blog Success contains webinars, training videos, articles, tech support and much more to help you make your blog as successful as possible. They also claim to have outstanding tech support for WordPress blogs, and all support is included in the monthly fee. Currently, Jack Humphrey is offering a 60-day trial period. While you will pay the $47 a month membership for the first two trials months, you are eligible for a full refund at any point within the 60 days if you decide you're unhappy with the program.

So is Blog Success a rip-off? Personally, if you have the ability to avail yourself of a 60-day trial period, that's plenty of time for you to find out if you’ll even want to know how to blog for money. If you’re not completely satisfied with it, then cancel the membership. Jack Humphrey’s reputation for training people how to improve their blogs is pretty well established.In short, his customers are very satisfied with the scope and range of training materials on his blog, and many people report that Jack’s programs have helped them improve their existing blogs in both traffic and conversions. It just makes perfect sense to me that if you want to learn what is involved with making a blog, and how to blog for money, you should learn from one of the best. If you want to learn anything, and you plan of being successful at it, it’s a no-brainer.