---
layout: article
title: "Remedies for Wet Cell Phones"
date: 2014-01-25 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://www.wikihow.com/images/thumb/a/a1/Save-a-Wet-Cell-Phone-Step-12-Version-3.jpg/aid33339-v4-728px-Save-a-Wet-Cell-Phone-Step-12-Version-3.jpg
---

Wetness is a common issue with cellular phones. Here's some common situations (I'm certain you could come up with a lot more): you forget your phone is in your pocket when you dive right into the lake, your phone moves out of your back pocket and right into the toilet, you forget your phone is in your pocket when you put your clothing in the washing machine - anyhow, you understand. Is that phone toast or can it be saved? Here's some pointers that might save it.

1. Take a non-metal stick and detach the phone before doing anything if the phone is plugged in and in water. You do not wish to be electrocuted.

2. Phones that have really had extended time in water will probably need to be disposed of. It's worth attempting to save them. Among one of the most important initial actions with any sort of phone is to take out the battery likewise the SIM card (if your phone has one), then completely dry all parts off thoroughly. Conserving your SIM card with all your data will be worth this initiative. The phone will have a little white square or circle near the battery area. Your phone has water damage if this mark is pink or red.

3. Dry off all parts with a soft cloth or paper towels, ensuring not to shake or move the phone way too much as that will drive the water deeper right into the internal workings. Focus on the tiny openings in the phone such as the plug sockets. Take out any sort of exterior covers or devices. 

4.Use a vacuum to take out the wetness yet do not put the nozzle too close to the phone. This might make static electricity which is even worse for the phone. Dry each area of the phone concentrating once again on the openings. 

5. Do not utilize a hair dryer even on cool settings as this might drive the wetness deeper right into the phone. Do not shake the phone or bang it upon your hand as this too might drive the water deeper.

6. Place your phone in a bed of absorbent material such as raw rice or allow it to rest on absorbent towels or paper towels overnight. Here is a tip from the WikiHow post: "How to Save a Wet Cell Phone".

7. Add a desiccant packet, such as silica gel — often found with new shoes, purses, noodle packets, etc — in with the cell phone. The downside of this method is the packets packed with shoes has usually already reached its absorption capacity. Dessicant for flower drying can usually be purchased at most craft stores. Leave the phone with the dessicant or rice as long as possible (at least overnight) to absorb the moisture.

Rotate the phone to a different position every hour until you go to sleep. This will allow any water left inside to run down and hopefully find an opening to escape. 

8. After 24 hours re-install the electrical battery and check your phone. Do not connect it into a power source now. 

9. If your phone is not functioning, attempt taking out the electrical battery, connecting it in and powering it up. If it functions then you have to change the electrical battery.

10. Take your phone to an recognized provider as they may be able to fix it. Tell them it has actually been in water. Seawater is the worst, incidentally. The provider could take the phone apart to check out the damage. It's suggested that you not attempt this as it is very easy to damage the very tiny connections in a mobile phone. 

Acquiring a safety cover or keeping it in a plastic bag may be an good concept if you are around water a lot. Answering it will take a lot much longer. My parting words: acquire an budget friendly cellphone to take in your boat, and save your data in more than one location along with on the phone - probably "in the cloud".