---
layout: article
title: "A detailed technical analysis of QuickBooks hosting services"
date: 2014-02-05 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://www.acecloudhosting.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/quickbooks-hosting-migration-checklist.jpg
---

QuickBooks Hosting permits small businesses to incorporate functionality without acquiring additional IT support cost or pricey infrastructure. It enables a reliability of experience amongst users; it protects data, and encourages collaboration; delivering business technology advancements without extra cost. Application hosting & Cloud Computing permits businesses to supply the complete power of desktop and server-based software using their employees, franchisees, and accounting clients in a regular, per-seat Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) model.

Intuit QuickBooks software is the most popular and easy to use accounting software and widely-used accounting solution for businesses and professionals. It's highly intuitive and is effective for small businesses, medium businesses and large enterprises as well. QuickBooks software hosted in the cloud enhances the application by permitting your organization a brand new way of affordability, agility, efficiency and security.

Access full featured QuickBooks:

QuickBooks Hosting on QuickBooks Terminal Servers enable you to access full top features of the newest QuickBooks application and for almost any version of the program you might have installed. Hosting not just saves on the time and effort of the installation and technicalities for different users, these may be run on just one single hosted system.

QuickBooks Hosting helps you to:
=>Utilize the latest version of QuickBooks or prior versions
=>No feature loss while moving to hosted applications
=>No additional learning on your own part
Latest updates automatically incorporated

QuickBooks Hosting supports:
=>All major Add-ons
=>More security as Add-on also hosted on the terminal servers
=>Easy and hassle free integration of varied versions of QuickBooks with latest Add-ons

Security And Reliability with QuickBooks Hosting Service:

Security of vital computer data and files is most essential to your business organizations. Threat to data security can occur either as a result of laxity in data transfer in the network or threat to the server storage characteristics. Data copied locally may suffer if the information lost accidentally or as a result of spywares or viruses. QuickBooks hosting service permit the storage of data in the safest way possible.

The information of your respective application is saved within highly protected data centers regularly as well as there is multiple backups of your respective files. Besides that, data transfer could be safe since it's enabled through highly encrypted data transfer protocol.

One should have the best accounting for their accounting business but so is security and privacy also. With QuickBooks hosting services hosted on secure and private servers, you can access it quickly and safely right in your web browser or your remote desktop. QuickBooks hosting services are a services which is alternate to your local infrastructure.
Take a look at these QuickBooks hosting features that will boost your organization straight away:
=>Usage of accurate information everywhere
=>Freedom for your staff to provide better yet customer care
=>Faster response time
=>Easier collaboration
=>No more costly equipment, software or extra IT maintenance

QuickBooks hosting services include:
=>Unlimited QuickBooks Company Files
=>Daily Backups retained for two weeks
=>Export to Microsoft Excel