---
layout: article
title: "How to find free adware and spyware remover?"
date: 2014-07-24 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://cdn.lynda.com/course/500542/500542-636529206113513056-16x9.jpg
---



Ever downloaded something from the web and the next thing that happens, you notice something goes wrong with the computer? When something like this happens, there is a very big chance that the system has been infiltrated by a spyware or adware. 
Spyware are programs designed to send certain information back to the programmer. This may include bank account numbers, credit card numbers and anything else important. Someone can use this to buy items without the owner really knowing until the bill comes which is already too late to do almost anything. 
Adware on the other hand will show pop up ads that are really quite annoying even if the person did not log into that site. It might inform the user there is a virus in the computer even if there is none and those who click on it will get it thus causing more problems.
Having a software program that can fight against spyware and adware will help prevent damage from happening to the computer. Here are the top 5 software programs for the person to use so the user can judge which one is the best. 
1 One good software is Ewido designed by the Grisoft Group. It can handle spyware and adware as well as other threats such as Trojans, dialers, worms and keylogger.
2 McAfee has been in the business of providing security solutions since 1987. The software programs it offers can take care of viruses, spyware, adware and any other threats all in just one package. Among the different software companies in the industry, this firm does not allow free trials but those who have used it and are still doing so today are satisfied with its products and services.
3. Another leader in the industry is Symantec. This company started 5 years earlier than McAfee and offers customers various versions of its products. Those who are skeptic about the adware and spyware software it has can download the software and try it for 30 days. Those who amazed can then buy the program to continue enjoying its services. 
4. The fourth company on the list is not so big but is still able to hold its head up high in the market. The program is called Spybot Search and Destroy. From the name itself, the individual can already tell what it can do as well as prevent new threats from ever popping up in the future. 
5. Lastly, is Adaware, which also has various versions for personal and commercial use. Those who will just use it to keep the computer safe at home can download the adware spyware remover program for free. If this will be used by a company to protect its assets, a fee will be charged to keep the system running. 
The person does not have to be a computer expert to be able to protect everything inside the computer because there are all kinds of adware spyware remover programs available. In these days,there are more and more software programs available online that offer you free scanning and removal of spyware from your PC. You can choose from a variety of legitimate programs that will be able to effectively do the job for you and for free. But most of the times, these free online spyware scanning and removal tools may not be able to provide you with the full protection that you need. You may need to purchase a spyware and adware removal software that may be able to provide you with the most comprehensive spyware protection that you need. 