---
layout: article
title: "Benefits Of Leased Lines For Business"
date: 2014-07-08 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://www.linkcue.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Benefits-of-Business-Leased-Line-Over-a-Broadband-Connection.png
---



What is a leased line?

A leased line is a connection between two end points that are private. Leased lines are also referred to as a private circuit or data line, this connection is mainly used for internet access. Leased lines are used for data exchanges, video & voice calls. Leased lines are referred to as dedicated bandwidth solutions, there are no changes in speed or availability at times where this is in high demand.

Advantages of leased lines for businesses

✓ Symmetric

You are able to upload and download at the same speed (un-contended). This means you are able to perform data consuming tasks like transfer big files, working remotely from home and making calls via IP telephony.

✓ Flexible connection

Leased lines carry many forms of communication. In many cases, businesses use them for VPN access, telephone calls and internet traffic. You are even able to decide how the bandwidth is allocated.

✓ Fast

Leased lines are of course very fast & reliable, some can come in the range of speeds 2Mbps up to 10Gbps. Unlike with ADSL2+ and standard fibre, there are no ‘up to’ or ‘best’ speeds, you will only ever receive the full bandwidth allocation for which you pay.

✓ Reliable

Naturally, leased lines come with excellent Service Level Agreements (SLAs), it is down to the provider to monitor and maintain the data-line themselves, to ensure a certain level of service is always maintained.

✓ Private and secure

As this is a dedicated line just for your business, leased lines are private & secure, usually managed and taken care of by your service provider & 3rd party re-seller

✓ Full support

Your business will receive on hand 24/7 business telephony support, you will be able to speak to your provider of your line straight away without issue. Your direct provider for your line will endeavour to resolve any problems quickly & effectively.

✓ Unlimited usage

Fair usage? There is no such thing where a leased line solution is concerned, you can use as much as you like whether that be at peak times or not.

✓ Business Benefits

Businesses will pay a fixed monthly rate for a leased line, your business can plan a telecommunications budget due to monthly rates, a leased line cannot be accessed by other parties that are not specified by the network parameters. If your business is looking at VoIP & Cloud solutions or if you already have them in place, a business leased line will strengthen your broadband reliability making Cloud & VoIP solutions more than viable for your business.

Disadvantages of leased lines for businesses

✓ Cost 

Leased lines carry many benefits, so naturally, for all these benefits, it will cost your business, usually a cost of £200-£500 per month.