---
layout: article
title: "NetZero Mail and Outlook - Why You Need a NetZero Outlook Connection"
date: 2014-01-23 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://www.bleepstatic.com/content/posts/2018/09/04/Outlook.jpg
---


Use NetZero and Outlook together? Why? Keep reading to see why you want to do this, and learn how quickly and easily you can set up a NetZero Outlook connection.

As a NetZero Mail user, you know the benefits of the service. AS an Outlook user, you know the power and flexibility of that program. But surely you've wished they would work together, allowing you to get your NetZero mail in your Outlook Inbox. It turns out that you can. And it is easy to do.

To set up a NetZero Outlook connection that lets you send and receive your NetZero mail using Outlook (just like all your other email) takes just minutes. What, specifically, does it take to make this happen? You need to do two things:

* Upgrade your NetZero mail account

* Configure Outlook to communicate with the NetZero mail servers

Once you complete those two tasks you'll begin seeing your NetZero messages in your Outlook Inbox almost instantly.

Unsure if the benefits of making a NetZero Outlook webmail connection are worth the hassle? Let's think about it. How many times a day do you have to switch between Outlook and your NetZero mail just to be sure you see all your messages? Have you ever wasted time searching for an important email message in one place only to discover that it was on the other account?

Once you set up a NetZero Outlook connection like this, those problems will go away. It'll be much easier to find stuff since all your messages will be in the same place. And since your NetZero messages will now appear in your Outlook Inbox like all your other messages, you'll be able to use all of Outlook's powerful messaging and personal information management tools with your NetZero messages.

What You Need to Do to Make a Smooth NetZero Outlook Webmail Connection

Many, if not most NetZero users use the free version of NetZero Mail. And why not? It is a great mail service that is easy to use. The bad news for us is that there is one big problem with this free service. You can't use the free version of NetZero account with Outlook or any other mail program.

The good news for us is that there is a way around this problem. NetZero does allow you to connect to Outlook. You just have to upgrade your NetZero account.

To make an Outlook webmail connection to your NetZero account, you need to upgrade your free account. Outlook works perfectly with either a NetZero Platinum account or a NetZero HiSpeed account. And while it may be somewhat annoying to have to upgrade your account, NetZero makes the upgrade process fast and easy. You won't have to move things around, change your email address, anything unpleasant like that.

To set up a working NetZero Outlook connection takes about two dozen steps. But don't freak out! Each step is easy, and like I mentioned before, there are detailed instructions available to walk you through every step of the process. They take you through converting your NetZero account to one of the types that can talk to Outlook, through configuring Outlook, right down to testing the connection to make sure everything is perfect. And it all only takes a few minutes.

So to sum up, making this connection will lead to more efficiency, less wasted time, and fewer hassles when it comes to dealing with your email. How can you lose? All you need to do is get your hands on the kind of quality instructions that will make the whole thing a snap.