---
layout: article
title: "How To Use Spyware Elimination Software"
date: 2015-04-16 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://bestcellphonespyapps.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/What-is-the-text-messages-spy-app-can-do-on-SamSung-Phones.jpg
---



Spyware elimination software is designed to detect and eliminate spyware. A large number of spyware elimination software products are available. Some of them are available as freeware and some as shareware. Shareware can be used for a specified period, usually 30 days. 

One must evaluate and compare the features of different spyware elimination software products before selecting one. Some of the features of an effective spyware elimination software product are: 

* It should give a list of detected spyware, to enable users to allow them to decide, about which ones they want to delete. 

* Auto update ensures that the software automatically downloads the latest spyware definition file. 

* Auto scheduling means that the system is scanned for spyware at defined intervals automatically. 

* The "undo" facility allows the user to remedy accidental deletion of useful files. 

* The product should provide real-time protection. It should prevent installation of spyware, instead of just deleting it when it is detected. 

* The software should be effective in detecting and deleting, the different types of spyware. 

* The product should be easy to download, install, navigate and use. 

* Product support ensures that there is someone you can call or e-mail, whenever you have a problem. 

* The right spyware elimination software will ensure your privacy and keep your computer free of advertisements. 

Some of the most popular spyware elimination software products are: Spyware Eliminator, Spyware Doctor, MS AntiSpyware, McAfee, Pest Patrol, Spy Sweeper, Counterspy, Ad-Aware, Spybot Search & Destroy etc. 

The most popular personal firewalls include McAfee Firewall, Norman Firewall, Windows Firewall, Surf Secret, Sygate Firewall, Zone Alarm, Outpost Pro, and Norton Firewall etc. 

Spyware Eliminator

Spyware Eliminator is one of the most popular spyware elimination software products. It also provides you with anti-virus and anti-Spam capability and prevents malicious software from entering your PC. 

It gives users specific threat recommendations and its consumer ware facility identifies legitimate ad ware companies and their software. The user then has the option to delete this software or to keep it. Spyware Eliminator is particularly effective in dealing with cleverly concealed, self re-generating spyware and adware.