---
layout: article
title: "Getting a Drone License"
date: 2019-02-22 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://uavisuals.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/uavisuals_blog_getting_drone_license-1-1014x487.jpg
---

Drones can be great fun and sometimes you can actually make some money from them. However, in many areas, having a drone business is not allowed unless an exception is made for you. There are rules that have been set up so as to handle the drone ownership in various parts of the world. There are steps to follow and you need to get a license. Some areas also require payment of a fee.

Remote pilot certificate

When you have this kind of certificate, it is possible to fly drones legally in certain areas, even if your intention is to make a profit. You can make money from a drone from the selling of footage, goods delivery and so on. There are many flying restrictions that you may have to deal with.

You need to budget on the kind of drone you want to purchase. Usually, you should be able to get a fair priced one, but if your intention is to make some money, then a good quality one is the best choice.

Flying for fun

If your intention is to just fly for some kicks, then you may not need the certificate. However, rules differ from one area to the next. You will however need to register that drone, especially if it is above a set pound limit.

For drone racers who use the first person kind of glasses, the certificate is a must have.

Making money

When you want to make some money, then there are some qualifications that you will need to fulfill so as to qualify. They include:

Age: most places require that you should be at least 16 years of age

ID: most jurisdictions require one to have an ID that is issued by the government bearing a signature, address and name.

Tests: you also need to take a test, usually a knowledge test at the nearest center

Fee: you need to part with a fee before you take the test. You will need to do some sort of study so as to be able to take the test and pass. Usually, a score is given and uploaded.

Certificate: after you have passed the test, you can now apply for the certificate by providing proof that you actually passed the test in the first place.

Before the certificate is issued, a background check is conducted. You can have a temporary certificate sent to you as you await the real copy to be delivered through the mail.

Preparing for the test

So as to get the certificate, you need to take a test. Just like any other test, you need to prepare adequately so as to be successful. Do not underestimate the test since you may actually end up failing.

If you want to be successful, you need to take some of those courses that are available online. You may have to part with some more cash so as to access the course, but it is totally worth it, especially when you want to make some money from the drone.

Drones license gives you the authority to use your drone legally. FAA drone license can only be given after you fulfill all qualifications and after you pass the FAA drone test. FAA Part 107 test can be accessed online and can really help you prepare.



