---
layout: article
title: "Android Development Using HTML5 and AdAPPt Compiler"
date: 2019-02-21 18:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://d32myzxfxyl12w.cloudfront.net/images/blog_images/732cb20aa9fa7d96319b393bfdc8429bd0a593ed.png?1541077307
---


HTML5 is the latest version of HTML (Hyper Text Markup Language). Compilers were used with early home computers, typical the ZX81, Vic 20, Commodore 64, Acorn Atom and Apple computers. Some of those who were at the forefront of writing apps in machine code and using compilers (in the early 80's when they were children or teenagers) are now at the cutting edge of Android development. Some have been using HTML since it was first introduced in 1990 and have used every version up to and including HTML5; this minority of developers are understandably amongst the best in the world.

Text Markup Language
This existed before Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML) and was used by newspaper and magazine editors. Stories were given to them and they would add markup notes, so the typesetters knew which words would be in bold or italics, ready for the printing presses. The editor would add < bold > before a word that was to be in bold and then put < /b > or < /bold > after the word. A < p > would be written at the end of a line or paragraph. Other symbols or text would also be used, e.g. < Title > Android development using HTML5< /Title > < p >
Dot Matrix and similar computer printers (connected with a cable) used the same 'markup language' and could print in bold, italics and various typefaces, provided they received the correct commands, in the form of the markup language.

If a stream of characters and associated images could be sent along a cable and become a printed magazine page, then if this stream of characters could be sent over the internet as 'Hyper Text Markup Language' it would replicate a visual page of text from one computer monitor to a monitor on another computer. It was called HyperTextMarkupLanguage because it travelled through 'hyper space', also called the internet ether, which is why terms like Ethernet were used.

HTTP (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol)
In the 80's there were a number of different (some were home made) computers, all of which were made as stand alone. They could not easily communicate with each other, as there was no common protocol.

What is a Protocol?

If you see a person at a business meeting (whom you have never met or spoken to before), then you might ask a mutual friend to introduce you. This typically involves a handshake; if this protocol is not followed (i.e. you interrupt while they are talking to someone else), they are unlikely to talk (communicate) with you.

By the end of 1990, everything was in place for Berners-Lee to send pages of information from one computer to another; these became known as web pages. Main components were/are HTML, HTTP and a browser, which allows the displays to look the same on different computers and monitors.

HTML evolves to become HTML5
Early web pages were pages of information, as they became more interactive, buttons were added and then graphics and newer versions of HTML were introduced.

The latest version is HTML5, which is designed for the second decade of the 21st century (post 2010) and is ideally suitable for today's mobile internet devices. A few companies at the cutting edge of writing apps for the Blackberry iPhone, iPad, windows mobile and involved with android development have taken advantage of the unifying capability HTML5 to increase efficiency and reduce development time/cost.

If an app is required for an iPhone, Android, BlackBerry or other mobile internet device, then using HTML5 and a compiler from adAPPt.co.uk, the app will work on the primary mobile internet device, e.g. android, and can also be cross compiled for the Blackberry, iPhone or any other mobile device.

