---
layout: article
title: "Hiring Dedicated PHP Developers Is In Demand"
date: 2019-02-07 11:10:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://apps-development-services.weebly.com/uploads/9/6/2/7/96271856/benefits-of-hiring-a-dedicated-offshore_orig.jpg
---


What is CSS, and why is it an advantage in web design?
CSS or cascading style sheets are documents that specify the style and presentation of mark-up language-defined web pages. These may include HTML or XML. Style of the web page encompasses everything from fonts, colors and the basic layout. CSS espouses modularity by separating presentation from content.

The web is no longer confined to desktop PCs or laptops but a wide range of devices, which come with browser widgets to explore WWW. In such a cross-platform scenario, style sheets should be able to interpret the device specification for appropriate display of the content on any platform - be it mobile phones, laptop, desktop or PC tablet. The style of your web page should be adaptable, which can be achieved by the effective use of CSS. This is much in contrary to the conventional usage of style parameters, which hinder the flexibility of web pages.




CSS is web-designer friendly for many reasons. First and foremost your CSS is a standard independent "function", which can be invoked or tweaked to give effect to changes across the website, and not just a single web page. This proves to be advantageous, as you make the change only at one place for it to cascade to other layers. Secondly, with presentation and content in separate files, the file size of your overall website is drastically reduced, as the CSS will be accessed only when the user visits that particular page, whereas in the traditional method, the tables will be downloaded every time the user visits any page of the site. The reduction in bandwidth spells quicker download time.

Another reason why CSS wins hands down as an effective tool for web design is the structured approach, which gives wider latitude for websites to perform in the online market. With Search Engine optimization stealing the show in the online-space, websites' content should be optimized to rank high in search engines. Through CSS style sheets, a web page is more content oriented with less of coding making the web design score an extra point with SEO. Moving from the "back-end" aspects to front-end aspects styling, CSS enhances the adaptability of websites by being compatible with different types of browsers, which these days come with lot many features. Any browser will view the website, the way it is intended to with no cross-wiring between browser and style sheets.

The compatibility factor brings to light multiple platforms and devices, which are part of the Internet's seamless connectivity. Just as mark-up languages, cascading style sheets can be presented in different versions depending upon the platform it is used for - mobiles, palmtops etc. In this context, linked style sheets make optimal use of the concept of CSS functionality.

In short, web design templates integrated with CSS "perform 'n' present" on all platforms- one of the crucial parameters for businesses to thrive in the online space. Delivering in this vast space of web design services, with a unique combination of style and substance is web design company California. The web development company whose radar of services cover Los Angeles, San Diego, San Francisco links your business essence with the latest technology, styling it the perfect way that the presentation is what you intend to project, on any platform. Our services also encompass SEO and graphic designing intricately weaving the visual with the functional into a synchronized performance of your website.