---
layout: article
title: "List Building Strategies - 2 List Building Strategies That Work"
date: 2019-02-22 15:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://www.eliv8group.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/list-building-tips.png
---


A large number of people have started to promote list building strategies recently as it has been demonstrated to be a very effective method of advertising to a targeted audience. While some of the methods are overly complicated and others don't seem to work at all, there are a few very simple methods which you can use in order to build yourself a list of potential clients.

On-Site List Building Strategies That Work

To start things off, one of the most popular methods of list building consists of creating a squeeze page, otherwise known as a landing page. This is a page which was designed for the simple purpose of obtaining the contact information of anyone who visits the website. Naturally, you will need to offer something in exchange on your end and few things get people's attention like some type of free mini-course or exclusive report. To reiterate, by creating a squeeze page and offering people useful information for free you can easily start building your list, although keep in mind that your results will only be as good as your traffic.

Another interesting method which you can easily implement consists of placing the subscription box at strategic places on your website. It is recommended that you place one at the beginning of every post for two reasons. First of all, people won't feel compelled to click something which is located below what interests them. Second of all, if they aren't going to click the box the first time, they will have a second chance as most people will go back up to press the "back" button on their browser. It may not sound like much, but it can definitely make a difference.

Off-Site List Building Strategies That Work

As was mentioned earlier, the results you will get from a list building strategy will only be as good as your traffic, meaning that in order to increase your subscription rates you will need to tap into some new sources. There are many ways to widen your reach, such as making forum posts, comments, guest posts and submissions to article directories. Keep in mind though that these methods will take a bit of time to come into effect, although it should be noted that they are free.

One of the most important factors when it comes to determining whether or not people are going to subscribe to the list is how much they trust what you have to say. If you can manage to display yourself as a reliable authority in your niche, chances are people will be much more receptive to anything you have to offer them. An excellent way to build up your credibility is to invite an expert for an interview to answer some questions related to the needs of your readers. Also, you could try run a webinar, although that will take some time and practice before you are ready.

Keeping your Subscribers Happy

After you have a list of subscribers it is important to keep periodically reaching out to them with new offers and information. Keep sending them free goodies from time to time, but make sure they will actually be useful to them; if you will keep sending irrelevant and poorly designed products most people will simply unsubscribe and ignore any future offers from you. As a matter of fact, considering that the amount of people who will be subscribing to your list will slowly start to drop down, keeping your subscribers happy may very well be the most important of all list building strategies.
Jim Valicenti, is an online affiliate marketer, active martial artist, and social media follower. He is a believer of life and all it has to offer. Feel free to visit Jim's Website at http://ListBuildingAdvice.info to learn more about list building techniques and the different strategies needed to help you build your list!