---
layout: article
title: "8 Things to Cover in Your Managed Services Agreements"
date: 2019-02-20 13:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://www.mycustomer.com/sites/default/files/styles/banner/public/six_stars_1_1.jpg?itok=0-57X0In
---


Outsourcing your IT processes to a Managed Service Provider (MSP) is a great idea. But to benefit the most from an MSP, it is essential that both the parties are on the same page regarding requirements and deliverables.

With an accurate Managed Services Agreement outlining the services provided by MSP, clients can build realistic expectations while covering the MSPs against liabilities.

While creating a Managed Services Agreement, there are certain things which you shouldn't miss out; let's go through them in detail.

1. Services

The first and foremost thing to be included in your agreement is the kind of services you are going to provide to the client. Whether it is just management, cloud, support services or a package of all of them; everything should be clearly outlined. It is also important to mention which services are excluded to avoid future complications.

2. Response time

The agreement should clearly define the duration of which you will be responding to an issue brought up by your client. Make sure to specify your business hours and if you will be providing services in addition to those business hours. If yes, then whether extra charges would be applicable for that or not.

3. Responsibilities

Your Managed Services Agreement should clearly account for all the things you will be responsible for during your association with the clients. It should state what responsibilities will be taken up by you in cases of system, hardware or network failures or glitches.

All such scenarios should be pointed out in detail so that the client doesn't form any misconception about your services.

4. Availability

Your client can build unrealistic expectations regarding the services they will be getting from you. To avoid this, it is very important that you define the realistic services which you will be able to provide them. For example, how fast will you be fixing any system failure or disasters? How often will backups be carried out? It will provide them with a real assurance of your services.

5. Client demands

To avoid getting called for unreasonable client demands, it is important for you to define your system requirements. What that means is, there must be some standards defined in the agreement on the basis of which the client will be able to avail your services. If these set standards are not met, you are not liable to offer your services.

6. Guarantee

Don't promise more than you can deliver. While confirming your alliance with any of your clients, be sure about your deliverables and abilities. It is best to avoid making false guarantees in order to acquire a prospective client.

7. Performance

Your agreement should document expectations concerning system performance with clarity. It is especially helpful if you are dealing with services related to hardware, workstations and third-party systems.

8. Priorities

It is possible that your clients might trouble you with petty issues and make them seem as urgent. To avoid this scenario, you must define your priorities without any confusion. It gives your client a clear idea of what problems can be stated as urgent and which of them can wait a little longer for solutions.

So the next time when you are getting that agreement ready, make sure to tick these points off your list for a smooth alliance.



