---
layout: article
title: "What is a VPS - Advantages of VPS hosting"
date: 2019-03-12 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://www.cloudways.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/Cloud-Hosting-Vs-VPS-Hosting-Banner.jpg
---


What is a VPS?

VPS is known as Virtual Private Server. VPS hosting is a combination of Shared hosting and Dedicated hosting. It is created with the help of virtualization software. This type of software is responsible to create different portions within a single physical server and turns that single server into several separately-working partitioned servers.

Now you must think that why it is different from shared hosting and Dedicated hosting?

Then the answer is in case of cost, VPS is similar to Shared hosting. The cost of VPS hosting is a little bit more than shared hosting. In case of Flexibility and Security, VPS is similar to dedicated hosting. In case of VPS hosting there are many private servers created in a single physical server each functioning separately. Every physical server will work as an independent force, totally indifferent of its neighboring servers and will also act like a proper networked server.

What are the advantages of VPS hosting?

There are many advantages of VPS hosting. Some advantages are as follows :

1.Stability : The stability of VPS hosting is much better than Shared hosting. The traffic and other activities of other VPS users wouldn't badly affect on your website operations.

2.Performance : VPS users have their own allotment of resources that's why VPS permits your visitors to enjoy minimum load times.

3.Dedicated Resources : You will get more disk space, CPU and also RAM with VPS hosting.

4. Flexibility : You can choose your favorite operating system and also reboot your server independently with VPS hosting.

5. Root Access: VPS users get root access to manage their virtual servers. Users can manage and also configure software installations. Users can manage these all processes with the help of their own control panel application.

6. Management and Support: VPS users don't have to worry about management and support. Now maximum hosting providers offer VPS with management and also support, means user's hosting provider will be responsible for any kind of technical issues, software installation etc.

7.Server Monitoring: Any superior VPS hosting provider will effectively monitor its network and hardware that the user's account relies on. It assures the physical security of the server and also assists in defending against virtual threats such as hackers, malicious software and DDoS attacks.

9. Backups: In case of VPS "backup" is a very common name. Anything can happen within the provider’s network, so you must take your own data backup manually to assure that it can be restored at any time and choose only that hosting provider who takes user's regular data backup.

At the end of this discussion we can say that, VPS hosting permits many features, resources, control and flexibility of a more costly and complex dedicated server in very low cost. But you have to choose a proper hosting provider for your business.