---
layout: article
title: "What is TYPO3 Customization?"
date: 2019-03-15 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-0ee641a598044bced93fae4777ef6942
---

TYPO3 is an open source CMS available freely to be used and distributed under GNU general public license. TYPO3 is a content-management-system that is essentially built with an intention to separate content and design. Typoscript, which is not a programming language or a scripting language, is actually used for integrating design and contents together. TypoScript can be termed as a configuration language consisting of configuration instructions that are incredibly simple in structure. TypoScript consist of all the information that is needed to fetch the data from the database and render it in the front end.

Like any other ready to use CMS, that consists of modules and components, TYPO3 consists of different ready to use Extensions. The Extensions are kind of plug-inns consisting of various features and functions. Currently, there are more than 3400+ Extensions available for the TYPO3 developers and users that can readily be integrated on click of a button. With the help of these extensions you can install calendar, news, photo gallery, document repository, search engine, newsletter, website statistics package, login box etc. For specific needs TYPO3 provides you with a framework for building your own extensions. With the help of your know how to PHP syntax, you can make us of the TYPO3 kickstarter extension and thus quickly extend the database with a table. For more information, readers can visit typo3.org

Thus summarizing and coming back to our point, TYPO3 Customisation would essentially denote - change in the configuration language or altering Typoscripts, changes to the existing Extensions for suiting specific needs, developing new extensions for meeting very complicated and specific requirements, changes to template and integration and further but not the last one, making changes in the Backend Module of the TYPO3 for the need to changing the way that you want the site to look.

TYPO3 is flexible to be customized to any extent and can help you to build simple websites to complex web applications with much lesser time as compared to custom or bespoke software development.

