---
layout: article
title: "10 sites website to learn code"
date: 2019-02-17 15:10:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://i.ytimg.com/vi/PaDVGUnOihw/maxresdefault.jpg
---

Programming learning is now available to everyone because of the availability of many online learning resources and a large number of sites that offer programming learning from scratch. If you are asking for programming, the simplest thing you can do is to wake up your personal site and learn to solve problems in a logical way. As well as to save money in working on some simple software projects in addition to the possibility of starting an emerging project needs to know the programming and the features provided by the learning programming also choose or employ the most appropriate people to work on your projects, either a website or a web application or a phone application in addition to the supervision of Achievement work, and you can finally start learning programming from scratch as a step in the professionalism of this area where job opportunities are available both fixed jobs or self-employment.

# [1- Harvard University’s CS50 class](https://www.edx.org/course/cs50s-introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x)
This free course offers an introduction to computer science from Harvard University and includes a focus on learning HTML and C, JavaScript, SQL and CSS programming languages. It also provides learning how to think logically and understand algorithms and how to solve software problems efficiently. After completing the course, A certified certificate.

# [2 - Learn programming with Academy Hassoub](http://academy.hsoub.com/programming/)
Hassoub Academy offers free high quality programming in Arabic, including lessons in HTML, CSS, Ruby and PHP, as well as lessons in WordPress and Javascript. Node.js is one of the best features that Hassoub Academy provides. A community that allows questions and answers from experts in programming and discussion exchange With them.

# [3. Code.org](http://www.Code.org)
Code.org is a not-for-profit site designed to encourage students to learn computer and learn programming from scratch. The site includes free programming lessons, including a lesson on how to build a game like the famous Flyby Bird game and many other tutorials that provide programming learning easily.

# [4. Code School]()
Code School is one of the best sites to provide programming learning from scratch through specific level-level paths through interactive lessons, video annotations and screenshots. According to the site, more than 1 million people use the site to develop their skills and acquire new skills. To learn HTML / CSS and another to learn JavaScript as well as a course to learn Ruby language and a course to learn the development of iOS applications in addition to a large number of tutorials, Code School provides an application for iPhone phones to follow the lessons through, and available on the site many free educational courses in addition to lessons D Monthly subscription fee.

#5- freecodecamp
The site offers a unique programming experience by participating in a charity activity. The site teaches students basic and advanced techniques for building software projects for non-profit organizations. Initially, the user has to choose to join a community of students and teachers and work together to solve software problems. Learn the necessary lessons for free and then participate in the development or application of real software problems for non-profit organizations and then help them and gain experience and add projects to your business record, that the site provides education and gives the trainee experience.

# 6- Dash website
Dash provides programming learning through a number of interactive projects such as how to build a personal site, design a responsive theme for a blog or develop a small business site. This makes the trainee acquire HTML, CSS and Javascript skills.

# 7. Codeconquest
This site provides a guide for beginners who want to learn programming from scratch, by providing the necessary information step by step to start learning programming, through lessons in the basics of programming and lessons in how to learn a specific programming language also helps the site to choose the best tutorial or training to develop your skills Software.

# 8- TheCodePlayer
This site offers many detailed presentations that show how to build applications and sites. Each lesson comes with a complete step-by-step video as well as an in-depth description of the lesson and code for what is being explained.

# 9. Mozilla Developer Network
Through this site, Mozilla provides the tools and lessons for beginners to learn the development of Web sites and applications step by step with the explanation of Wafi starting download and install tools to publish the first site, and the site provides lessons for those who have a preliminary knowledge of programming and lessons for professionals.

# 10. W3schools
This site provides easy tutorials for those who want to learn programming from scratch with explanations and examples and the opportunity to apply these examples, the site offers classes in HTML, CSS, Javascript, PHP, jQuery and SQL.

In the end, learning programming needs a great effort and effort to reach professionalism, but often the first step is the most difficult step. The 10 sites we mentioned will help you overcome this harder step, sharing other resources to learn programming through comments.

