---
layout: article
title: "How to Build 300 Backlinks With Articles in 30 of Minutes on Autopilot"
date: 2019-03-06 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://blog.majestic.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/Stephen.jpg
---


Building back links have always been hard to build, not to mention time-consuming. Luckily, I encountered a way to do it fast and easy - it is called article marketing. You are about to read my way ranking websites even for the most competitive keywords with articles.

I have been doing that for more than 4 years. I do SEO for accountants primarily and they want to pay for results only, so it is in my best interest to deliver results fast or I will not get paid.

As I said - article marketing is my weapon of choice in delivering results for my accountant clients. I write and submit articles to thousands of article directories to get backlinks fast.

When I was starting I was doing it manually - going to a few high page rank directories and submitting my articles manually. The problem with this approach while working is that I could not scale it up. What is more - even if you get a few high PR backlinks you still will not be able to rank high in the search engines for some competitive keywords.

That is why I decided to invest in article submission software and it has been one of my best investment so far. In short this type of software allows you to create accounts on thousand of websites, verify them and post articles in a matter of 30 minutes. That gives me the ability to work on a few customer websites instead of just one doing it manually thus making more money.

On the average I need about 30 minutes to spin an article and submit it to 1000 article directories and start seeing links pointing to my SEO clients in a matter of days. Each article I submit gets published by around 300 article directories, give or take.

Keep in mind that for most keywords you need about 1000 links to rank within the first 10 results in Google. That means that you can build and maintain a lot of sites that way as opposed to just one thus making more money for you.

Of course, the article submission tool is not free, but it is a good investment, if you are serious about your online business, and if you are reading this article you are for sure.
