---
layout: article
title: "Top Advantages of Using Visual Inspection Systems in Productions"
date: 2019-02-05 11:10:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://litcoachblog.files.wordpress.com/2016/06/use-images-not-words.jpg?w=695
---

Quality assurance is one of the most important parts of the manufacturing process. It is the part which comes at the very end of the production where the final product is checked for defects and errors before selling it to the customers. This is important because not only it reduces the errors in production, but also prevents humans from items which can be potentially hazardous.

For a large part of the industrial history, inspection job was conducted by humans, but now the companies can use advanced technological systems to enhance their quality control. Industries which are involved in producing end products such as gadgets, pharmaceuticals, consumer goods, beverages and foods etc can immensely benefit from visual inspection systems as they offer a reduction in cost and greater accuracy and reliability along with excellent mechanical stability.

How Do Visual Inspection Systems Work?

Visual Inspection Systems take use of digital sensors which are protected inside the cameras. These cameras use the optical sensors for taking images which are then processed by computers in order to measure specific characteristics for decision making. They use the applications of artificial intelligence for making accurate and faster comparisons between the correct stereotypes and real products.

Components of Visual Inspection Systems:

Lights: Lights help in making a feature standout so that it can be captured clearly by the cameras.
Lenses: Lenses present the images to the sensors, which are actually machine vision cameras and are meant to transform light into images in the digital form.
Vision Process: They work on certain algorithms which analyze the images and extract all the possible information about defects and errors observed in the image.
Benefits of Visual Inspection Systems
After visual inspection systems have been programmed and tuned in to the manufacturing process, they can do a large amount of production checking in a really short amount of time as compared to human inspection.
In human inspection systems, there's always a significant chance of errors and no matter how experienced and focused the employees are, these errors can never be brought down to a negligible level. Human capabilities have limitations which visual inspection systems haven't. And this is how they remove the chances of error in inspection to a great extent and provide a higher quality of products.
Another benefit of visual inspections is that in case production method changes, these systems also adjust accordingly with great ease.
They also improve the production efficiency. They can catch errors at a faster rate. Analysis of these observed defects can be made quickly and necessary corrections can be made immediately.
Unlike humans, these systems can work nonstop for twenty-four hours with unparalleled diligence. They can also be operated and programmed from a faraway place.
Bottom Line
By adopting the visual inspection system in the production process, companies can increase production and also prevent the wastage which is generated by defected and faulty products. This will save not only the company's revenues, but also ensure complete customer satisfaction.



