---
layout: article
title: "How Good Are Fiber Optic Cables?"
date: 2019-02-20 13:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: http://www.egypttoday.com/images/larg/42667.jpg
---

Fiber optic cable versus wire transmission differences boil down to the quickness of photons versus the speed of electrons. While fiber optic cables do not travel around at the velocity of light, they are very close- just about 31 percent slower. Here are more benefits.

Security

Would it be that hackers can access business cable with relative ease, because of cable tapping or various other simple methodologies? The only method to penetrate fiber-optic is to cut the fibers physically, that may cause the transmission to disappear. Fiber-optic cable is one of the powerful methods to improve your company's safety against cyber criminal offenses.

Fiber Optic Transmission Has Low Attenuation

When traveling in a long range, fibers optic cables encounter less signal damage than copper cables. That is known as low attenuation. Copper connections can merely transmit information up to 9,328 ft due to power decline, whereas fiber cables can travel and between 984.2 ft to 24.8 miles.

HD Video Support

For a lot of companies, training video and teleconferencing are essential tools for employee training, advertising, and product sales. With a fiber-optic system, many companies can easily boost their investment in video conferencing as one of the best long lasting business tool without sacrificing bandwidth. Research indicates that more investment in video conferencing saves companies thousands every year and even month, especially if you can cut out too much business travel.

Resistance to Disturbance

Copper cable is usually delicate to electromagnetic interference, which may be due to the closeness of weighty equipment. PMMA Fiber cables do not degrade because of electromagnetic interference. If your company shares a telecoms space with other businesses, fiber-optic can easily protect your connection from disappearing if the other organizations are employing equipment that can hinder your interconnection in the same space.

Fiber Cables Are Resistant To Electromagnetic Intrusion

Copper wires, if not installed properly, will create electromagnetic currents that may hinder other cables and wreak the system on the network. Fiber cables, unlike real other cables, usually do have electromagnetic currents.

Symmetric Speed

Symmetric speed is a term utilized to refer to same upload and down load rates on a connection. With fiber cable connection, your employees can reap the benefits of same upload and download speed.

Is symmetric speed necessary? It's definitely not critical for business procedures, but it's helpful. Improvements in symmetrical speed are advancements that reflect how networks are used. Today's employees can upload online video content, files, or make calls as when they work unlike what people used to do decades ago. Symmetric speed allows users to accommodate heavy demands on uploads and downloads simultaneously via their data connection.

Fire Safe

An additional advantage of PMMA fiber optic cables is they are not really a fire risk. This can also be related to the same reason the cables do not make EM.

Fiber Cables usually do not break easily

This implies that you shall not have to worry about replacing them as frequently as copper cables. Though the fiber is made from glass, copper wires are more susceptible to damage than fiber cables are.

PMMA fiber optic cable offers significant dependability benefits over copper connection, due to the known fact that fiber is much more powerful than copper. PMMA fiber optic cable isn't susceptible to bad weather that may damage or perhaps stall data transfer via copper cabling. Fiber is resistant to human being or electric interference unless it is physically cut.



