---
layout: article
title: "Major Link Building Trends to Focus on 2019"
date: 2019-02-22 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://cdn.matthewwoodward.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/12-link-building-strategies.png
---

Incorporating link building as an element of your business’ SEO marketing strategy is essential if you want to gain some high ground in Google’s search results. It is a doorway for potential future customers to land on your eStore and product/ service pages. Many businesses tend to avoid link building services because of its time-consuming and ever-changing nature. As search engines use a wide variety of factors to decide which website ranks over the other, it is necessary for your business to follow the most popular link building trends.

# Thorough Research and Usage of Data in Content Creation

The internet is home to numerous players and a massive amount of new businesses are joining the game every day. In order to stay ahead of your rivals, you need to make use of clever strategies. This will be done by taking advantage of fresh data and detailed research during the creation of content. Due to their creative hold over the original findings, whenever a reference is made on a new blog post or an article, you will obtain beneficial backlinks. 

# Reclaiming Backlinks

When your website was designed, you knew it would go through changes in the future. The way your website looked in 2017 might need an upgrade in 2019, as some styles tend to lose its essence over time. But, it is more than the look. The inclusion of new services and products also require changes in a website.
When your website gets a makeover, or you move it to a different domain, the links will stop working. It is not possible to go through every social media post and content to dig out those links, and losing them can be disadvantageous. With the help of link building services, you can create techniques to find those broken, dead, and irrelevant links.

# Optimisation for Mobile

Even today, many business owners fail to take advantage of mobile devices. More than 50% of the global internet searches are from mobile devices. Your website needs to be optimised for mobile users and your content has to be mobile-friendly. In this way, they can work as effective link baits. When your efforts at link building are aimed at mobile searches, you will earn relevant and profitable links.

# Guest Blogging

Guess blogging is a productive method of boosting the rank of your website in web searches as the post links back to your website from the blog you make an appearance on. In simple terms, the search engine takes your website to be interesting if other people are interested in it. With the number of likes, comments, shares and links to your website, your page’s ranking are enhanced. When a search is made on a related topic, your page is more likely to appear above others.

Your link builders reach out to valuable and high-quality websites in your niche to make room for your guest post. They will choose some of the leading websites relevant to yours, which have a huge amount of traffic and shares, to give your business the best online exposure.

# Skyscraper Content

It is the process of researching and finding out trending topics and the most popular pieces of already available content across the field of your business, and discovering new techniques to produce similar content that conveys something even better. It works effectively because the existing content audience is excited to find something superior to the original resource they prefer.

# Offering Testimonials

Whilst many business owners find this method outdated, it is wise to put up intriguing customer commendations on an agency’s website. Utilising customer testimonials is a great way of advertising your brand and increasing backlinks.

Incorporating these link building trends is going to play a significant role in helping you earn online exposure.
Working with a team of skilled link builders, Nhance Digital is one of the top providers of link building services in the UK. An experience of over 10 years had led this company to master the usage of latest and effective SEO strategies, making them capable of enhancing a website’s growth and reach significantly.

