---
layout: article
title: "War of the Pages: Facebook page vs Landing Page"
date: 2019-03-05 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://www.lego.com/r/www/r/catalogs/-/media/catalogs/activities/marvel%20super%20heroes/coloring%20pages/thumbnails/marvel_coloringpage1__civilwar1_thumb.jpg?l.r=1208853134
---


That’s a really an enthralling question, actually, and one we could talk about endlessly. Both have their specific good points, and the two deserve to be in your online marketing mix. It’s probably an easier charge to deal with this…

In what way can you make use of both Facebook and Landing Pages to increase your subscribers list?

We’ll consider how a Facebook Page can help you

Facebook Page

With just a few minutes you can join and get a Facebook Page created. Even though quite truthfully, a lot pages can’t really grab their visitors’ attention to subscribe. Keep this in mind when creating a page that will be noticeable from others.

Primarily, before we go further on how to start it up, one feature of Facebook Pages I really like is that they are easy to "Like" and open while signed on to Facebook. Although there is no facility for a straight email sign up page on Facebook, what can act like one is gaining many "likes" on your posts or wall. It shows that you are sharing something important to your audience and can encourage them to subscribe. However, there’s another way for you to format your Facebook page to catch emails. With the use of images and hyperlinks, you can fashion a mini-website on your Facebook page. You can even pick any tab as the initial tab that your visitors will set eyes on.

You can take advantage of that feature by making a "landing page", so to speak, that visitors will see before they click to the main tab. You can put up a sign up box with eye-catching headline on this landing page tab.

A suitable instance is Daily Worth’s Facebook page. With a significant subscriber base, Daily Worth is a website for women to talk about financial-related issues.

As shown on their page, the initial tab is a squeeze page type tab, which asks for your email.

You can effortlessly make an email sign up box using MailChimp, Aweber or Constant Contact (whichever you prefer), and place the code into your Facebook squeeze page tab. Then ensure that all the other links you’ve set up on this page will proceed to the important pages on your blog or website.

Having these provides you the combined advantage of an email signup as well as Facebook "likes". You have an opportunity to catch emails and at the same time garner "likes" on your page.

Aside from that, Facebook has remarkable analytics resources you can easily access to keep track of your page statistics. You can tell how much activity your site is getting with the metrics that show your visitors and interaction scores.

The Landing Page

Most people indentify the landing page as a page that sells products and services, with a characteristically long sales message. Break that label with an eye-catching landing page that will attract people to enlist.

It will cost you to market your landing page but that’s the only way you’ll get plenty more readers to take notice. But for what it’s worth, you are paying in only one instance to get an email from your visitor. 

When you get hold of a visitor to enlist, you never have to request for their email address all over again. Making it all work isn’t at all impossible with a robust headline and an important slogan.

Although, you should keep up to date with your landing page’s level of activity. You need to measure how efficient your landing page is at capturing email addresses by looking at your conversion rate (number of clicks vs. number of email addresses activated).

Unbounce.com is a landing page tool that is relatively cheap and useful. For $25 each month, you can get a landing page up in just minutes with its professional landing page templates and easy to install functionality. Importantly, you don’t have to know any programming. You can also use it with services like MailChimp and Wufoo.

Nevertheless, the most relevant point of your marketing drive is split testing your landing page and knowing whether you are receiving real returns out of your page.

The direct access to a landing page gives it an advantage against a Facebook page where you need to have an account to have permission to browse it. 

The Power of Two

Both Facebook and Landing Pages give you considerable opportunities to rev up your list’s increase if you employ them to its full potential. Utilize them both and you’ll have great campaign power.