---
layout: article
title: "Data Platform: The Power in Your Data"
date: 2019-02-18 21:27:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://endjin.com/Content/images/endjin/product-header-mdp.png
---


Data, a word when read, seems simple, but in an organization or business, it means a lot. Data has the power to change the whole perspective of your organization; it can make or break the game. It's a realm of multiple possibilities. Whether the data is, on-premise, edge, or on cloud, it has the capacity to bring new opportunities forward and give detailed insights for your business.

Reinvent your business with these Microsoft Data tools:

SQL Server

The SQL Server gives you the power to innovate faster while you are on-premise. The new Microsoft SQL Server 2017 comes with updated security and intelligence. You get all the extra features without having to pay extra, with performance that is best-in-class, and flexible for your on-premise requirements.

Be it Linux, Windows, or Docker containers, you can run SQL Server 2017 on any of your favorite platform.
Azure
Speed-up your move to the cloud today. Now you have the advantage of cloud agility and the efficiency required to migrate to cloud without having to change the code. With azure you can make faster predictions and unlock new insights.

Start innovating faster with Azure data services. Microsoft Azure comes with the ability to unlock the data potential.
Solutions
Pick the technology of your choice and start developing with, along with open source, which is backed by Microsoft's innovations. Get easy integration of data in the apps and make use of the updated set of cognitive services for developing intelligence that is human-like across the complete scale of data.

Build intelligent apps faster. Choose the tools and platforms of your choice for incorporating intelligence in your applications.
Artificial Intelligence (AI)
When it comes to data platform, AI is native-get access to insights quicker from any data that you want, cloud or on-premise. Work with combining your unique data for enterprise and the data from the world to build an organization that is driven by intelligence.

Microsoft is using intelligent technology to amplify human ingenuity. With AI, they bring the ability to extend our capabilities to help us achieve more.
Microsoft Data Platform: The Solution
Intelligent

Now get the power of AI with the Microsoft Data Platform right in your data to get a detailed understanding about your customers and business like never before. Microsoft is the only one who brings machine learning to the edge and for the database engines, for increased security and accurate predictions.

Agile and Fast

Microsoft's flexible data platform that provides an experience that is consistent across the platforms and helps your innovations reach the market sooner. Build and deploy your apps from anywhere and anytime.

Enterprise-ready

Help your business scale when you know that the availability, performance, security requirements are covered-with a cost of ownership that is industry-leading.

Data Platform

With so many advantages and features, Microsoft surely wins the race. Data platform has a lot of potential that can help your business and help it advance in the digital race. Implement data platform and help your business perform better.



