---
layout: article
title: "IDE Features for PHP Development Can Give Much Better Results"
date: 2019-02-22 11:09:00+0200
coverPhoto: https://www.kanhasoft.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/PHP.jpg
---

Integrated Development Environment is abbreviated as IDE which is also often referred to as integrated debugging environment or integrated design environment. PHP development in India has seen a boost with the use of IDE, a software application with lot many features. A standard IDE especially designed for PHP developers normally includes debugger, interpreter/compiler, build automation tools and a source code editor. Recent time IDE are found to include many other features.

But have you ever thought why IDEs were developed in the first place. It was PHP developer's greed to develop more functional applications in less time with less effort that lead to the development of IDE the biggest boon to the industry of PHP development in India. It helps PHP developers in India to develop better applications in less time with no or few errors. How well a developer performs using an IDE depends on the type of IDE used by them. 

When the market for PHP development in India is full of different types IDEs where each claims to be better than the other it is of course difficult to decide which IDE to select. Here are a few features which an ideal IDE should have. Check for them before you try your hands on any IDE : 

1) Syntax highlighting a feature that highlights the unique and important codes during the programming makes it really easy to program and edit the code at a later stage. It uses a combination of colors and bold features to highlight the codes. 

2) Pre programmed code suggestions help the PHP developers in India save lot of time. As you start writing code you get code suggestions. In order to complete the codes simply click on one of the many options available. It also helps avoid errors in the project for PHP development in India. 

3) Navigation and search options make it easy to find the location where the variable is defined. 

4) Preventing typos and other common mistakes while programming for PHP is very crucial, the syntax checking feature can help in doing so. The more errors the IDE detects the better it is. 

5) IDE for PHP development in India makes it convenient to convert a weak code to a strong one. Some more known refactoring features of IDE are "Move," "Rename," and "Safe delete". 

6) Debugging in certain situations can save PHP developers lot of time especially when echo is required to be added after each line of code in complex applications. 

7) Versioning is helpful for PHP developers to perfectly guess what and where the changes have been done to the code and who has done the changes. This feature can be useful in two different ways either to learn something better from the editions or to catch someone who has tempered with the coding. 

8) Most of the applications developed are a combination of different languages specifically CSS and JavaScript. Hence the many benefits of IDE like good completion, navigation and highlighting are useful for the other languages as well.